docs(deploy-ecs): Concepts overview (#7996)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/self-managed/deployment/containers/cloud-providers/amazon/index.md

---
id: index
title: "Amazon ECS"
description: "Run the Camunda 8 Orchestration Cluster and Connectors in Amazon Elastic Container Service."
---

import AoGrid from "@site/docs/components/react-components/\_ao-card.js";
import ConfigIcon from "@site/docs/components/assets/icon-config.png";
import ReferenceIcon from "@site/docs/components/assets/icon-reference-api.png";

Run the Camunda 8 Orchestration Cluster and Connectors in Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS).

## About

> In an environment like Amazon ECS, where brokers can restart anywhere and multiple tasks write to shared volumes, you need to trust that your data is safe and managed properly. Camunda 8 is production-tested to run in Amazon ECS, including Fargate. This includes checks and guidance to prevent silent data corruption and unsafe configurations.

Reviewer: Suggestion to remove "production-tested" statement that is not aligned with the current maturity of the ECS deployment. We discussed that production readiness with @hisImminence and have not fully settle on this level of assertion yet.

Suggesting
> "Camunda 8 can be deployed to Amazon ECS, including Fargate."

> ## Get Started

Reviewer 2: I think it might be a good idea to combine "Get started" and "About"

Get started with Amazon ECS and Fargate.

> <p><a href="./aws-ecs" class="link-arrow">Deploy the Orchestration Cluster to Amazon ECS</a></p>

Reviewer: Is `link-arrow` a standard pattern used elsewhere in the docs? If not, consider using a standard Markdown link or an existing Docusaurus component for consistency.

## Learn the fundamentals

> When you deploy the Camunda 8 Orchestration Cluster, you can be confident in its:

Reviewer 2: I would maybe soften the wording here, something like:

"When you deploy the Camunda 8 orchestration cluster, you benefit from:

- Simplicity: You don’t need to adopt Kubernetes with Amazon EKS.
- Safety: Run Camunda 8 on ECS using supported configurations to help prevent data corruption and meet compliance or SLA requirements.
- Observability: Monitor broker health to maintain cluster stability in ECS’s dynamic environment.
- Cluster membership handling: The deployment manages broker restarts and ECS task scheduling to keep the cluster stable.
- Resource management: The orchestration cluster includes a dynamic node ID provider based on Amazon S3. It assigns a node ID at startup and prevents duplicate broker IDs".

- **Simplicity:** You don't need to adopt Kubernetes via Amazon EKS and its complexities.
- **Safety:** Trust that Camunda 8 on ECS won't corrupt data under supported configurations, so you can meet compliance and SLA requirements.
- **Observability:** You can monitor broker health to ensure cluster stability in ECS's dynamic environment.
- **Cluster membership handling:** This deployment handles broker restarts and ECS task scheduling to ensure your cluster is stable.
- **Resource management:** The Orchestration Cluster includes a dynamic node ID provider based in Amazon S3. This assigns a node ID to the broker on startup and ensures there are no two brokers running with the same ID.

> This deployment targets a single AWS Region with multiple Availability Zones, running the Orchestration Cluster and Connectors on Amazon ECS with Fargate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This deployment targets a single AWS region with multiple Availability Zones, running the Orchestration Cluster and Connectors on Amazon ECS with Fargate.
```

Other dependencies include:

- Amazon EFS as primary storage.
- Aurora PostgreSQL as secondary storage.
- Amazon S3 for node ID metadata and backups.

For more implementation details, read the [Architecture](./aws-ecs#architecture) section of our deployment guide.

## Amazon ECS vs. Amazon EKS

If you're already invested in Kubernetes tooling and patterns and you want to remain in that environment, Amazon EKS might be a better option for you. More reasons to consider deploying to Amazon EKS over Amazon ECS include:

- **Multi-region support:** When deploying to Amazon ECS, the only supported and tested pattern is a single AWS Region with multiple Availability Zones (multi‑AZ). All core pieces of the Orchestration Cluster are expected to live in one region.
- **Performance:** The Amazon ECS with Fargate deployment uses Amazon EFS as primary storage. This may result in higher costs and lower performance than a Kubernetes setup with block storage.

> - **Scalability:** Scaling in the Amazon ECS environment is a manual process that requires invoking the [cluster scaling API](../../../../components/orchestration-cluster/zeebe/operations/cluster-scaling.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Scalability:** Scaling in the Amazon ECS environment is a manual process that requires you to invoke the [cluster scaling API](../../../../components/orchestration-cluster/zeebe/operations/cluster-scaling.md).
```
